Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crowe, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Milford campus here in Southern New Hampshire where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
And pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
Well good morning everyone.
We had a chance to meet my name is Dave Ripper I've served as the lead pastor here at Crossway for it'll be seven years in March so glad to be here and as of 8 o'clock this morning I didn't
I think I was going to be here today.
So sadly, Pastor Chris is not feeling well.
Glad to have Lisa here with us.
And so I wasn't planning to preach at all today.
Our youth pastor, Jeremy Vorce, was going to preach at the pond where I'm normally up.
I was away this week, spoke four times at a pastor's retreat up in the Adirondack Mountains.
And then four more times over the weekend at Lake Winnipesaki for a worship leaders retreat.
And so I thought I'd give myself the day off Sunday.
Here we are.
And I'm so glad to be here.
And there's a lot of you.
We've never had a chance to meet.
I think it's been since November, since I was last here.
And I'm just so encouraged to see some new faces.
And I'd love to say, hey, after the service as well.
But Abraham Lincoln once made the comment that he said, if I had more time, I would have said less.
So I'm not prepared at all this morning.
So if the snow starts coming down pretty heavy, please stop me here.
I'm excited as we continue our series week two of the Old Testament book of Jeremiah.
And even for people that have been longtime students of Scripture, longtime Christians, this is not a book that we spent a lot of time going through.
And there is a reading plan if you'd like to follow along to read along with it.
And I was at the eight o'clock service at the pond today and a few people came up and they said, boy, this is a tough book to read.
And I said,
It's kind of like the state of Maine.
There's like some really great spots in Maine, but then there's like all this space between them.
You've got to drive hours to get to them.
So there are some great chapters that we're going to preach from.
But as you read along, there's some chapters.
You're probably like, yeah, I can see why they didn't.
talk about that one on Sunday, but read along and I think it will be a really impactful journey as we discover the power of a really well-lived life, maybe one of the most underappreciated people in the Bible in the way God worked through Jeremiah.
And today we're gonna look at Jeremiah's calling.
And as we look at his calling, I wanna share a little bit about the calling God placed on my life and I really want you to be thinking about the calling that God has placed on each and every one of your lives.
There's no accident that you are here today.
No accident that you exist.
God made you for a purpose and reason.
And sometimes we think just pastors or prophets or others or the people that get the big calling.
And I just kind of go through life now, every single one of us.
who is a member of Christ's church has a calling, a reason, a purpose for your life.
And I hope that you might be able to discover a little bit more of what that is today as we get to hear about Jeremiah's calling.
And when I think about calling, just as a little introduction, I love Paul's words in Ephesians chapter four, verse one about calling.
And Paul says, therefore, as a prisoner of the Lord, I urge you to live a life that is worthy of the calling to which you have been called.
This tells me that all of us have been called by the ultimate one who calls and that is God himself.
And he has given us a calling and we are called to live a life that is worthy of that calling.
Now the word worthy in Greeks, one of my favorites, the word Axios.
Axios is a word that comes with a picture.
Axios describes the image of balancing scales.
And what's fascinating is that Paul is saying, God's calling and your life are to be congruent with one another.
So as we even listen to Jeremiah's calling and think about your own, consider how God's call in my living or maybe how might they be unaligned?
I have to think about this a lot.
Am I living what I'm preaching?
Am I preaching what I'm living?
These things should be one in the same.
So I think God is gonna do a good work in our
hearts and I'm excited to see what he says because frankly I'm not exactly sure but you're always told as preachers it's a great idea that I always have a sermon in your back pocket so we're ready to go if you brought a Bible and if I should determine with me to Jeremiah chapter one and we're gonna look at just verses one through ten last week Pastor Chris introduced this series verses one through three we'll read those again and then we'll look down at Jeremiah's calling and
One of the things I really love to do when I approach the scripture is to come to my chosen passage like I'm coming to a place where I will have a holy encounter with God.
come to your chosen passages to a place where you will have a holy encounter with God.
These are not any words spoken by just anybody.
This is the very word of God.
And so out of his reverence and respect, what do we stand if you're willing and able today as we hear the very word of God from Jeremiah one, one through 10.
The words of Jeremiah, the son of Hillchia, one of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin,
to whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah, the son of Ammon, king of Judah, in the 13th year of his reign.
It came also in the days of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the end of the 11th year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month.
Now the word of the Lord came to me saying, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you.
Before you were born, I consecrated you.
I appointed you a prophet to the nations.
Then I said, ah, Lord, behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth.
But the Lord said to me, do not say I am only a youth.
For to all to whom I send you, you shall go.
And whatever I command you, you shall speak.
Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you.
to deliver you," declares the Lord.
Then the Lord put out his hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said to me, Behold, I have put my words in your mouth.
See, I set you this day over the nations and over kingdoms to pluck up and break down, to destroy and overthrow, to build and to plant.
This is the very word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
You may be seated.
If you're unfamiliar with the Scriptures, here's where Jeremiah finds himself.
If you go back to the book of Genesis, the beginning of the Bible, we learn how God created people and created a family under Abraham to be a blessing to all of the world.
And one of Abraham's, his son was Isaac.
Isaac had Jacob, one of Jacob's sons was Joseph.
He was sold into slavery, lives down in Egypt.
There is a famine in the land of Israel and God
redemptively uses Joseph's terrible story to do something good.
He becomes second in command and saves the people, welcomes back his brothers and his family.
They all live in Egypt and they grow and grow and grow until Pharaoh's into the future.
Forget about
Joseph and what he did to save the nation and they see the Israelite people as a threat.
And so they are enslaved and while they are living in slavery, God raises up a man named Moses to help lead his people to the promised land out of bondage, out of slavery.
The book of Exodus talks about that as they make their way out of Egypt into the wilderness, God gives them his commands.
We read about that in Leviticus Numbers.
Deuteronomy kind of tells this story and ultimately
Moses' successor, Joshua, leads them into the promised land and in the promised land set up this time of judges.
God is going to be king, but these judges will rule over the people.
And these judges are people like Gideon all the way down to Samuel.
But when Samuel is the judge, the people are looking around at the neighboring nations and they say, we want to be like them.
We don't want to do this unique thing.
We want to be like the nations around us.
So we want to have a king.
God gives them over to their desires.
This is not going to be good for you, but you can have a king instead of me.
And who was selected as the first king?
Who was after Saul?
Who was after David?
Who was after Solomon?
It gets a little more confusing.
After Solomon, there is a civil war that sort of breaks out, a division.
And the northern 10 tribes become this nation of Israel led by
Jeroboam in the north and then the southern tribes or the nation now of Judah with Rehoboam as the king and the north and the south.
The nation of Israel and the north had 16 kings and they were all wicked.
None of them followed the ways of God.
And so in 722 BC, God allowed the Assyrian Empire to come and overtake them.
There were some good kings in Judah, you know, Jehoshaphat, Hezekiah, Josiah, who was only eight years old when he became king.
I have a nine-year-old son and a seven-year-old son.
It's just fascinating to me to think about how that worked out.
But while Josiah was king, they discover the scroll of Deuteronomy that was hidden in the temple, long lost, and he hasn't read before the people.
And as the people hear this message, they tear down the false idols they were worshiping.
They restore worship to the temple.
And it looks like it's all well and good.
But externally they were doing the right things, but their hearts were in the wrong places.
And so God raises up Jeremiah, the son of a priest, to become a prophet, to tell people that God is not just interested in behavior modification.
He cares most about heart transformation.
And here is what his calling is going to be like.
He's going to call people to change the way they're living and acting, but they're not going to.
And ultimately, because they turn their backs on God, they disconnect themselves from the life-giving resources of God, they are weakened spiritually, weakened as a nation.
And ultimately in 586 BC, the Babylonians come and they conquer
The people of Judah, they destroy the city and people are led into exile.
And while all that happens, Jeremiah is called to serve as prophet.
Let's see what this is like for him.
So verse four, we're just gonna walk through this verse by verse, kind of word by word.
Now the word of the Lord came to me saying, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you.
And before you were born, I consecrated you.
This is one of these powerful passages of scripture
that just show the utter worth and significance of human life from the very moment of conception.
God has a plan, a purpose, an idea for each of our lives even before we breathe our first breath out in the world.
And so that's a major reason why we as Christians advocate for life from the womb all the way to the tomb.
There is a purpose and plan that is bestowed on Jeremiah here.
And then he says, I appointed you a prophet.
What's a prophet?
A prophet's definitely someone who's like a spokesperson for God.
They hear what God says, and they want to share that, maybe not want to, but they are willing and will share what God says to the people.
There's kind of two main forms of prophetic office.
One is foretelling, which is telling what the future is going to be like.
And Jeremiah gives them really bad news that it's gonna be like,
captivity and exile if you do not repent.
And then there's forth telling.
Fourth telling is where a prophet helps us see what we, maybe you're unwilling to see about ourselves here and now.
A prophet kind of exposes our blind spots and it can be kind of hard hitting.
And if you read Jeremiah, you see he used a lot of very poetic language, very eloquent to try and help people be willing to admit, I might be living through a distorted sense of reality.
If you've heard the line that says, people don't see things as they are, they see them as they are.
And the prophet's role was to help people see things the way they really are, to truly come to terms with reality as it is and not just as they want it to be.
So based on a calling like that, would you really want to be a prophet?
You're going to be pretty unliked.
Maybe just tolerate it at best.
Probably the best way I can think about what the calling up of the prophet must be like is like wearing a Denver Broncos jersey here while they're going to play the New England Patriots later.
And we drew as a prophet at Paris here today.
So just really stands out.
I mean, the orange, it just really cuts through this whole room here, Drew.
So imagine that.
That is kind of what a prophetic role is like.
telling people what they might not want to hear, but a big part of the role of prophet is not just speaking the word of God, but it's actually living it out.
It's living it out.
And what makes Jeremiah's life so remarkable, as we'll see, is that for 40 years, he lives what he preaches.
There are many times that he might want to give up, and it's difficult, and he opens
his heart directly to God to say that this is not easy.
I'll share a verse with that before we finish related to that.
But for 40 years, he's faithful.
He's called.
And he's called to be a prophet to the nations.
It's fascinating.
He really only speaks prophetically in Judah.
And if you get to Jeremiah 44, and I hope you do, and we'll cover that in an upcoming sermon, but Jeremiah is ultimately after the Babylonians are conquering the people.
He is kind of held by some of the leaders and they flee to Egypt.
And that's the only time he actually goes to another nation is able to preach.
He does have a servant that goes and goes to one of the other nations and tells them these things.
But the point in saying he's a prophet to the nations is that God does not just care for one group of people.
God cares for the whole world.
And God is still hoping that everyone everywhere would know the good news of the gospel.
So it's never an us versus them thing.
God wants everyone, even our enemies, even the people who have different ideological beliefs than us, wherever they might be.
God wants to use us to help everyone, everywhere, know the good news of the gospel.
And that can also mean hearing some of the tough realities of it.
But that is the calling that Jeremiah has been given to be a prophet to the nations.
What have you been called by God to do?
Share a little bit of my story in a moment.
Let's look at the next verse.
Then I said, ah, Lord God, behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth.
And here, Jeremiah, his initial response to God is one of inadequacy.
You have got the wrong person here.
Jeremiah was the son of a priest, which means he probably saw life like a pastor's kids.
He's the inner workings of the church.
And he's probably hoping, I hope I don't get called to be a priest like my dad, or maybe that was just going to be his fate.
In that day and age, often you just took on your father's vocation as a son.
But he said, probably the only thing worse than being a priest would be being a prophet.
And now here we are.
And he says, it can't be me.
I'm not a good speaker.
I'm far too young.
I can remember very vividly when I was called to be a pastor and I was 13 years old.
I had a little bit of church background and a very traditional, very, very boring Presbyterian church.
People just went through the motions and I did not enjoy going whatsoever.
But my grandfather, who really raised me when my parents both worked, his wife, my grandmother had contracted Alzheimer's and my grandfather cared for her by himself all those years.
And then the day of her funeral when she passed away, early 1997, my grandfather had a massive stroke right at her funeral.
It was just devastating.
It was finally going to get some life.
And after all this caretaking to be unburdened by that, and he got put in a rehab center outside of Pittsburgh where I grew up for many months.
And I'd go and visit him often.
And the first time ever really sensed God speaking to me was there.
There was a man kind of in his quad that never had any visitors, never had any cards on the bulletin board, and something broke in my heart.
And I think I heard the Lord say, Dave, you need to go talk to this man.
And I kind of pushed back to this voice.
You've got the wrong person here.
Like, there was adults.
Like, I don't know.
What am I going to say to this guy?
And I'm just a young punk.
Like, he doesn't want me to talk to him, but I couldn't shake that feeling.
It was like, I was going to do something
that was just like violating the goodness of the universe if I didn't do it.
And so finally worked up the courage after like 45 minutes of reluctance and went over and said to this man, hey, how you doing, sir?
And this huge smile just came on his face, became clear he couldn't talk.
And I just felt like God just told me just to sit next to him.
And I just sat next to him and he just glowed.
And something came alive in me like I had never felt before.
And I started to think, I don't really care about having a great career or making a lot of money or whatever.
I want to do that with my life.
And so I started to think about, how could I do that?
And back at that rehab center, a place called Harmerville, I heard God kind of say to me, become a pastor.
And I did not welcome that thought.
I said, there's one big prerequisite that you need to be a pastor that I do not meet.
You need to be a Christian in order to be a pastor.
And I was not into that.
And so here I am as a seventh grader with a calling I don't want that I definitely should not have had.
I decided to act like Jonah.
And accepting a call to being a pastor is like going to Nineveh.
I ran for Tarshish.
And so I decided to almost try and disqualify myself for this.
And no joke, over my eighth grade year of school, I accumulated 36 detentions.
The maximum you could get without having a suspension.
And I was running from it.
But then I get into ninth grade, and I just can't shake this thing.
So I decided for the first time to just read the Bible myself.
And I started with the Gospels.
And I started reading about Jesus.
Not just what other people told me about Jesus, but really engaging with Jesus myself.
And I quickly discovered this has to be the most brilliant person who has ever lived.
The best lived life.
A big part of me felt drawn to him.
I still wasn't feeling all that drawn to church.
And then one of those moments you cannot dream up on your own, a courage for me.
I was walking my dog and this car full of five girls pulls off to the side of the road and invites me to come to this youth group up the hill from where I was.
And so I don't know anything about that.
But if you're inviting me, I think I got to find this out and end up going.
And very soon I learned the difference about knowing about God and knowing Him personally.
I knew about God as a kid.
I knew He exists, but He just seemed like this distant, removed, far-off being.
But here I knew I could know Him like I knew my friends.
I could know Him personally, interactively.
And that's what God desires for each of us.
Part of your calling is to know God in an experiential, personal, interactive way.
And that evolves, Jesus says in John 15, I no longer call you servants, I call you friends.
Imagine being a friend of Jesus.
You're called to that.
You're invited to that.
And so I ended up going to a church camp that summer and had a chance to actually give a little bit of a message to my peers, folks that were interested in ministry.
And I was, here's a chance to co-teach like a sermon.
And afterward people thought I just did a really great job.
So nervous, wrong guy, I shouldn't be doing this, but it turned out okay.
I ended up going back to my Presbyterian church and told them about this, and the pastor at the time said, I'm gonna be gone in like three weeks.
Do you wanna fill in and preach for me?
And I'm just like, oh yeah.
And then I walk away, I'm like, what have I just agreed to?
Wrong guy, I'm not qualified for this at all.
was just sweating bullets for the next, like, three weeks, but preached, did it.
And my sermon length was nine minutes total.
Maybe you're wishing that was the case today, but flew through it.
I thought it was awful, but people thought it was good.
And that was my call.
And I haven't looked back since.
That was almost 27 years ago.
Praise God.
But how many times did I feel inadequate?
Too young.
Can't really speak.
Got this heavy Pittsburgh accent I can't shake, you know what?
But I wonder, God's calling you as well.
Maybe not to the pulpit, but to serve, to be his friend, to be his follower, to be in an ever deepening relationship with him.
In what ways do you plead inadequacy?
Maybe I feel too young for this or too busy for this or this is gonna hurt my family relationships or maybe I feel too old for this.
Where do you find yourself feeling resistant to the call of God?
I'm more convinced than ever that it's not that God isn't calling us and that's why we don't hear him.
is that God is calling us.
We just don't like what he's calling us to that we often say, he's not calling me because I don't align with that.
I was just meeting with somebody this past week who has made some tough decisions in the wrong ones in life as he would admit.
And he's kind of got impatient with God, especially as it relates to relationships.
I want this now.
You're telling me to wait, but I'm gonna go ahead and do it anyways.
And now he's kind of absorbing some of the consequences to his choices.
And he's coming to me.
I'm kind of lost.
Would you help me?
And I said, what do you think God is calling you to do right now?
And he said, well, you know, I had this kind of image that God was just telling me just to wait and just to kind of rest and just put things on hold for now.
But that can't be it.
And as we unfolded our conversation and tried to listen to the spirit, the thing he didn't want to hear, he became convinced that is exactly what God was calling them to in this season, just to actively wait.
and to believe that the life God wants him to live will unfold before him.
If he would just be faithful and prayerful and steadfast and someone to be praying, that might be a calling for a lot of us.
Can I just be right where I am right now?
I'm convinced that the number one way to know what God wants you to do next is to be faithful to what God has already called you to do now.
And sometimes it's hard to know what has God called me to now.
So what I'll do is often make it what I call a faithful list, especially if I get restless or unsettled and wishing I was off somewhere else, doing something else.
God, what did you call me to be faithful to today?
Well, you've called me to be your disciple today, a learner, a student, an apprentice of Jesus.
Will I do that today?
And that you want to be a disciple of Jesus to start by asking him, Lord, if you were going to live my life today, how would you do it if you were me?
How would you do it if you were me?
Start there.
And I'll look at, okay, what are the other roles you've already entrusted to me?
Well, how can I be the best husband to Aaron today?
How can I be the best dad to Dallas Clive and Avila today?
How can I pastor crossway in the most faithful way I can?
How can I be a good neighbor?
How can I be a good soccer coach?
All these different roles.
And once I look at all the things God has called me to do, wanting to do something else feels way less appealing.
When I'm so consumed with doing what I already know God wants me to do now, I am free to trust that He will help me to know what I need to do next when I need to know what is next.
So God's calling you today to be faithful, to be His disciple, to follow Him, to learn from Him.
How can you do that today?
How would Jesus live His life if He was you today?
And then think about what's getting in the way of me wanting to do that.
Where do I feel resistance?
Where do I say I'm too young, too old, too whatever?
A couple of weeks ago I got to interview our founding pastor, Dave Smith, and I love that conversation.
Afterward, we got to have a meal together.
And he shared all the stuff he's doing that I wish he would have told me before the interview.
So I had to ask him about it.
But he's 68 years old.
And he's got this ministry to international students in Phoenix.
But now he's helping a 30-something church planner plant a series of house churches in this neighborhood outside of Phoenix called Guadalupe, which is a very kind of crime-ridden
vulnerable community, largely Hispanic.
Some people would say if you were just opened your eyes, you were blindfolded, didn't know where you are, you would thought you would be in just the heart of a pretty needy neighborhood in Mexico.
And so he is there at age 68 years old, feeling a fresh call to step out in faith.
And it just made me think, I hope when I'm 68, if God gives me that many years, I would be willing to do something that completely kind of defied the norms.
But sometimes one of the most
radical things we can do is just to stay put.
A lot of us are always on to the next thing, to the next thing, to the next thing.
Maybe the best thing spiritually for you to do is just to stay put and be faithful right where you are.
I don't know what that is, but I believe God has that calling for you and we don't want to let anything get in the way of that.
And so the Lord then says back to Jeremiah after Jeremiah pleads in adequacy.
He says, do not say I'm only a youth.
For to all to whom I send you, you shall go.
And whatever I command you, you shall speak.
Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you," declares the Lord.
I think the most unassuming yet powerful preposition that we find in the Bible is this word, with.
If you were with us a couple of years ago, we did a whole sermon series about how the Bible from Genesis to Revelation is about the with God life.
That God is with people, with them as a nation, with them through everything, which is so assuring because oftentimes we think God just kind of gives us an assignment like a boss and says, all right, go figure this out.
Go do this on your own.
And then you're just like, am I ever doing enough?
Or is this good enough?
And all of our insecurities start to come out and we often then just
reject the assignment or just let it slip through the cracks.
Is there anything that God's ever called you to do that you've kind of just let slip through the cracks?
Often we do that because we think we're having to do it alone, but God doesn't call us to serve Him without Him.
He invites us to go to our jobs, go to our schools, play on our teams, be in our neighborhoods, come to church with Him.
The with God life is what we're called to.
And Jeremiah embraces this, no matter how hard it turns out to be for him.
And then the Lord put out his hand and touched his mouth.
And the Lord said to me, behold, I have put my words in your mouth.
See, I have set this day you over the nations and over kingdoms to pluck up and break down, to destroy and overthrow, to build and to plant.
And that's exactly what God does through Jeremiah's words.
God can be trusted.
And no matter how hard things got for Jeremiah, he remained faithful.
He remained faithful.
Let me give you just two verses to wrap up here today.
And I can't see outside if anyone's worried about the snow.
I can see there's no snow right now.
If anyone's worried about it here, keep smiling.
I am aware.
Two verses that I think give a good vision as we make our way through this book of Jeremiah and as we think about how we can live out the unique calling today that God has given to us.
First is an image I love, Jeremiah 17, seven through eight.
And if you're gonna memorize any verse in Jeremiah, I strongly recommend you read this.
This is not on the screen, so just listen.
Jeremiah 17, seven through eight.
It says, blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence is in him.
They are like trees planted by water that sends out its roots by the stream.
It does not fear when the heat comes, for its leaves remain green.
And it is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit.
This is an image I think that Jeremiah would have had to cling to, to be a faithful prophet, to absorb all of the ridicule and punishment and struggle that he had to endure through.
Oftentimes when we go through bad things in life, we say, God, change my circumstances.
But God says, no, I want to change you to become the kind of person that is so rooted in my life, my power, my joy, my strength, that even when the heat comes,
Your leaves can remain green.
Even in a year of drought, you can continue to bear fruit.
What would it look like to be the kind of person who did not have the circumstances that you would want that are far from ideal and were still used by God to bloom right where you're planted?
To be used by Him in a greater way.
God wants to form and shape your soul just like that.
To be the kind of person who cannot be easily threatened because you're so rooted, so anchored in God.
to be like leaves that are evergreen, that bear fruit even in the midst of a drought.
And then I believe that is an image that carried Jeremiah through some of the hardest points of being a prophet.
I'm going to look at one more text.
It's a couple chapters over.
Jeremiah 20, verses 7 through 9.
And this is one of Jeremiah's prayers.
And what I really appreciate about Jeremiah is there's almost no God talk in him.
Do you know what God talk is?
It's like when we're not really being honest.
We use all this Christian-ese kind of language to just cover up our real feelings.
Oh, you know, I'm not doing great, but you know, praise God.
And some of that can be heartfelt and genuine, but Jeremiah doesn't use a hint of this God talk when he prays to God.
Listen to what Jeremiah says about how hard this calling is that he continues to embrace.
He says this in Jeremiah 20, verse seven, oh Lord,
You have deceived me and I was deceived.
You are stronger than I and you have prevailed.
I have become a laughing stock all the day.
Everyone mocks me for whenever I speak, I cry out.
I shout violence and destruction for the word of the Lord has become for me a reproach and derision all day long.
What's Jeremiah saying?
You give me this calling God to be a prophet.
And my obedience is only making my life worse, not better.
Have you ever had that experience where you're following God and it's made life harder and not easier?
A hard calling is a high calling.
But as Jeremiah gets honest with the Lord, the Lord does something to refocus and reset his perspective.
And here's what happens, verse eight or verse nine.
But if I say I will not mention him or speak any more in his name, there is in my heart as it were a burning fire shut up in my bones.
And I am weary with holding it in.
Indeed, I cannot.
Jeremiah almost imagines what it would be like if I just quit.
But he realizes God has done something so deep and so powerful, so alive in my heart that I've even tried to stop being a prophet.
If I even tried to shut my mouth and not do what God's called me to do, I couldn't.
That fire would overtake me.
The words would pour out of my mouth anyways because something is so real and true in my life that I have to speak it.
And my prayer for all of us as we read Jeremiah and study his life, I pray that the Holy Spirit would set a fire in our bones, that we would have a burning in our soul, that we could not contain, that we could not control, that we would be alive, that we would know God's calling for our life, that we would have the courage not to let any obstacle get in the way of that, being too old, too young, whatever it might be, not having enough talent, not having enough skill.
God will provide all that, that we would, with God, follow the Lord
calling each and every day that it would be such a part of us so consuming that we couldn't stop even if we tried to, even if we wanted to.
And so today, I know there's a lot of challenges that you might face.
You might have been feeling like giving up.
Maybe like Jeremiah, you need to voice some of your complaints to God as well.
And as you do, I believe God will touch your life and heart and help you see things from his perspective that he's with you.
that you could not stop even if you wanted to because his life in you was so deep, so rich, your heart was so on fire.
And I pray we would be like a church that would embrace this call like Jeremiah to have a burning in our bones, to be prophetic or to be simply servants in whatever capacity God is calling us.
I believe this is the kind of people God wants to form for such a time as this.
May we answer that call.
And may we say yes.
Amen.
Let's pray together.
God, thank you so much just for what an unexpected gift and joy it is for me to be here in Milford today.
I thank you, Lord, for so many people that are here and seeking and hungry to know more about you, to raise their family, to love and follow you.
And I think one of the great lies of the enemy that I want to pray against right now is that we're not called or we're not important.
Our role doesn't really have value.
May that lie be dispelled.
May that voice of the enemy be quieted.
And may we hear your calling afresh and anew.
That you are a caller who has given each of us a calling to live a life worthy of the calling we have received.
So Lord, may your calling and our living be congruent.
And that first call for all of us is to follow Jesus.
And if you're here today, I've never made that decision to follow Jesus.
I want to invite you right now to just answer the calling of the Lord and say, Lord, thank you for calling me.
Thank you for going to the cross and rising from the dead to save me, to rescue me, to offer me new life and forgiveness.
And so I ask for your forgiveness, God.
I receive it now.
And I say yes to following you.
Maybe that's you today.
Say, Lord, yes, I choose to follow you to be your disciple.
And for those of us who has made that calling, Lord, I pray today we would answer the call to be the disciple you would want us to be this day.
So thank you for your grace.
Thank you for your love and thank you for your calling.
May we live lives worthy of this calling that we have received.
For God's greater glory, for the good of the world and for our joy, we pray all these things in Jesus' name and everyone said together, amen.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Milford Campus Sermit Podcast.
If you'd like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at crosswaycc.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.